.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pint.1
.\"
.TH pint.1
.SH NAME
pint \- Public-cloud INformation Tracker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pint providers [options]

.B pint image_states [options]

.B pint 
.I provider
.B server_types|regions|images|servers [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pint
A client for the SUSE Public Cloud Information service at
.I https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/
The SUSE Public Cloud Information service provides information about
the SUSE maintained and operated update infrastructure as well as the SUSE
published guest images in Public Cloud provider frameworks.
It also provides the generic metadata information like the list of available 
providers, image states, server types and regions.
.P
The information service provides a REST API which flows from generic to
specific using the general format as follows:
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/
.IP <framework>
.IP [<region>]/
.IP <data-selector>/
.IP <data-target>.<format>
.P
For example:
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/providers.json
Provides a list of all providers in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/images/states.json
Provides a list of all image states in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/amazon/servers/types.json
Provides a list of all server types in Amazon Web Service EC2 in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/amazon/regions.json
Provides a list of all known regions in Amazon Web Service EC2 in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/amazon/servers.json
Provides information about all servers part of the SUSE update infrastructure
in Amazon Web Services EC2 in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/google/images/active.json
Provides information about all the active images published in Google Compute 
Engine in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/microsoft/West%20US/images/active.xml
Provides information about all active images in Microsoft Azure in the 'West US'
region.
.P
The
.I pint
command line client provides a convenience tool to access the information
provided by the information service and provides additional filtering
capabilities.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "<providers>"
The
.I <providers>
argument is used to obtain a list of frameworks for which additional
information is available. Use one of the values for the
.I framework
argument.
.IP "<image_states>"
The
.I <image_states>
argument is used to obtain a list of states that describe the maintenance
mode of the image. Each listed state can be used as an option when querying
image information.
.IP "<framework>"
One of the supported cloud frameworks obtained with the
.I providers
argument.
The
.I <framework>
argument specifies for which cloud provider the information should be
retrieved.
.IP "<data-selector>"
One of the supported information types,
.I images
or
.IR servers .
The
.I <data-selector>
argument specifies the type of the information of interest. With the
.I images
argument information about the SUSE published images in the given framework
is retrieved. When the
.I servers
argument is provided information about the SUSE operated servers in the
SUSE maintained update infrastructure is retrieved.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "<image_state>"
One of the image states obtained with the
.I image_states
argument. This option is only valid when used with the
.I images
argument. It provides information about images in the given state.
.IP "--filter"
Filter the information based on the given value(s). If the information is
to be filtered on more than one entry type provide a comma separated
list. The output is a subset of results that match all the filters. The filter
option specifies one or more of the valid data entries for the chosen
.I <data-selector>
and is a valid option for the
.I images
and
.I servers
arguments.
Name filters (
.BR name ,
.B replacementname
) can be partial string matches (~), partial string exclusions (!), or regular
expression matches (%).
Date filters (
.BR deletedon ,
.BR deprecatedon ,
.BR publishedon
) can be less than, equal or greater than a specified date, in the format
.IR yyyymmdd .
Valid filter values for
.I images
are:

.BR deletedon> ,
.BR deletedon= ,
.BR deletedon< ,

.BR deprecatedon> ,
.BR deprecatedon= ,
.BR deprecatedon< ,

.BR id= ,

.BR name~ ,
.BR name! ,
.BR name% ,

.BR publishedon> ,
.BR publishedon= ,
.BR publishedon< ,

.BR replacementid= ,

.BR replacementname~ ,
.BR replacementname! ,
.BR replacementname% .

.B Note
that not all filters will be populated for all images in all frameworks.

Valid filter values for
.I servers
are:

.BR ip= ,

.BR name~ .
.BR name! .
.BR name% .

.B Note
that the name for all update servers is the same in each
cloud framework. For example
.I smt-azure.susecloud.net
in the Microsoft Azure Public Cloud framework. The names are not resolvable via
DNS lookup. The name for all region servers are the same,
.I regionserver
across all cloud frameworks.
.RS
.P
Example:
.IP --filter="publishedon>20150101,name~11-sp3"
Filters images to a subset with a name containing "11-sp3" and published after
Jan 1, 2015.
.RE
.IP "-h --help"
Print a help message.
.IP "--json"
Set the output format to JSON format. The option is mutually exclusive with
the
.I --xml
option. XML is the default output format if neither option is provided.
.IP "--region"
Specify the region for which the information is supposed to be retrieved.
If no information is specified information for all regions in the given
framework is retrieved.
.IP "--regionserver"
The
.I regionserver
option is only valid when used with the
.I servers
argument. It provides information about the regionservers in the given
framework. Region servers are systems operated and maintained by SUSE
that associate your instance in the given region with the region local
SMT (update) servers.
.IP "--smt"
The
.I smt
option is only valid when used with the
.I servers
argument. It provides information about the SMT (update) servers operated
and maintained by SUSE.
.IP "-v --version"
Print the current version of the program
.SH EXAMPLE
.B pint google servers --smt --json

Will provide information about all SMT servers running in Google Compute
Engine in JSON format.

.B pint amazon images --region us-west-2 --active --xml

Will provide information about the active images in Amazon Web Services EC2
in the us-west-2 region (Oregon).

.B pint microsoft images --active --filter="name~priority"

Will provide information about the active 'priority' images in Microsoft Azure.

.SH AUTHORS
SUSE Public Cloud Team (public-cloud-dev@susecloud.net)
